---
title: 'Molecular generator using RDKit'
date: 2025-03-17
permalink: /posts/2025/03/Molecular_generator_using_RDKit/
tags:
  - RDKit
  - SMARTS
---

For my first couple of research projects, I used the Rule-input Network Generator [RING](https://conservancy.umn.edu/items/08233e5e-d6da-4a01-bdbb-85fa09c5a95b) to generate comprehensive reaction networks for the chemical problems we studied. RING is extremely useful—given elementary reaction rules and reactants, it automatically enumerates all possible reactions and products within specified constraints. The post-processing step allows users to easily extract reaction pathways and/or product molecules for further studies. Perhaps in a future post, I'll demonstrate how RING works using one of my completed projects. In late 2022, for this particular project, I decided to try RDKit and built a small molecule generator since our goal was simply to produce diverse molecules for subsequent virtual screening.

Every time I need to work with SMARTS strings, I check out this [Daylight Theory Manual](https://www.daylight.com/dayhtml/doc/theory/theory.smarts.html) or [SMARTS Examples](https://www.daylight.com/dayhtml_tutorials/languages/smarts/smarts_examples.html). Unfortunately, I haven't found other structured or well-documented resources on SMARTS syntax, so these two websites have become my go-to references. When I first started writing SMARTS reactions, it was quite painful—the reaction products were not always what I expected. It took a lot of trial-and-error, constantly flipping back and forth between my code and the documentation until I finally achieved the desired results. Now that we're finally wrapping up this project and finishing the manuscript, I've decided to document the generator component and share it on my blog. I see this as my way of giving back—a toast to all the amazing researchers who generously shared their insights (and code!) with the community, from whom I’ve greatly benefited and drawn inspiration.



Attach functional groups to aromatic scaffolds using RDKit SMARTS reactions
======

The purpose of this molecule generator is to create fictitious molecules by attaching various functional groups to pre-selected molecular scaffolds.

(To be continued...)
